What is an Error?
Errors are very common in programming and everyone experiences them.
The important part about errors is being able to understand them and then have a
solid process or structure for looking into them further. In Python, two types of 
errors occur.
Syntax errors pertain to the syntax of Python. An example of a syntax error is 
forgetting to close the parentheses when you call the function or defined one. 
This could also be the improper use of an operator. An Exception can occur 
even if a statement is syntactically correct. A common exception that you may have 
seen so far, a common example of an exception, is if a variable is not defined. 
Python will throw a NameError exception telling you that it does not have a value 
for the variable that you're trying to use. Errors have a more common name called a 
Stack Trace. In a later video, we'll break down how to read and understand what a 
stack trace is trying to tell you. Furthermore, in later videos, we'll talk about
how to handle errors using keywords like 'try' and 'except', and the 'raise' keyword. 
We will also look at some of the most common places to help you find and resolve your 
errors in your Python scripts. You can use the Python documentation, or we can look at
the millions of questions that are asked online on sites like 'stackoverflow'. 
Handling errors as a part of programming. 


Print Functions?
how it can help us when debugging our programs and scripts in Python.
Debugging is done when you're trying to find and fix bugs and code. 
A ''bug'' is a slang term for errors or processes that produce unintended outcomes.

In more advanced levels of Python there are better ways to debug programs and functions.
This usually involves IDEs, Integrated Development Environments. IDEs have useful tools 
for debugging. However, just starting out, we can use the print function to look into 
the variable values of our files as we run them.

This will help us solve some of the common errors and see what values, 
variables have when they are executed in the file.

Back in our repl, we have our small script that is giving us the TypeError. 
The error is occurring on line 2, and involves the use of a variable, and we're 
confused by this error and not sure what it means by string because we expect the 
'num' to be a number. We can use the 'print' function to see what 'num' is when the 
function executes. Here we see that the variable 'num' is '2', 
it looks like an integer. However, if we are to print the type, we would see that it's 
a string. This can be a common error in Python when trying to use math operators. 
The print function can give us a look into variables as we process them.

Later we could comment out the print function or delete it entirely. 
It's okay to find yourself using the print function a lot when you're just 
starting out in Python. Further on in this course we'll talk about other
debugging techniques and how we can use applications and other programs to make 
this process easier. 


Python Keywords
One of the important things The Python keywords allow Python developers to do is 
build statements that can be read easily like English. 
Python keywords are words in Python that have special meaning as operators, 
data values, flow control keywords, in addition to many other uses.

Here's a list of the Python keywords. As you can see some of these we have used 
and talked about in this course already like: false; true; def, D-E-F; return; 
except; and try. There are a few more Python keywords that I'd like to highlight 
in this chapter. For example, global, or, and, and not. In later lectures,
we'll explore flow control keywords like if, elif, while, break, and pass. 
Although the Python keyword list is not incredibly long, it can sometimes be 
reassuring to double check that you are using the keyword in the proper way, 
or if you are spelling the keyword in the proper way. You may have noticed in the 
repl that the Python keywords are highlighted in a different color. In this example 
script, you can see that def, return, and the Python keyword "None" are highlighted 
in blue. This helps indicate to you that this is a Python keyword. This is the same 
Python code but opened in Python IDLE. You can see the keywords are highlighted but 
in a different color. You should still pay attention to the highlighting of your code 
editing program because it can give you hints as to if you are spelling a keyword 
correctly. In the rest of this chapter, we'll be reviewing some of the more common 
Python keywords and some new ones that you haven't heard about. If you need to review 
any Python keywords, recall that you can use the help function in any Python 
interactive console. In the help function, you can enter module names, built in 
function names, or keywords. 
